Homework 2
================
Shangsi Lin
2022/10/01

``` r
library(tidyverse)
library(readxl)
```

## Problem 1

Import data from `NYC_Transit_Subway_Entrance_And_Exit_Data.csv`. Then
clean variable names and selects the interested column of variables.
Using the `recode()` argument to change the entry variable from `YES` /
`NO` to a logical variable. Also change the route 8-11 data type from
double to character as the route 1-7 data.

``` r
transit_df = 
  read_csv(
    "data/NYC_Transit_Subway_Entrance_And_Exit_Data.csv",
    col_types = cols(Route8 = "c", Route9 = "c", Route10 = "c", Route11 = "c")) %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  select(
    line, station_name, station_latitude, station_longitude, 
    starts_with("route"), entry, exit_only, vending, entrance_type, 
    ada) %>% 
  mutate(entry = recode(entry, "YES" = TRUE, "NO" = FALSE))
```

These data are not tidy, after the cleaning above, the current dataset
contains variables including line, station name, station latitude,
station longitude, route information, entry, exit only or not, vending,
entrance type, and ADA compliance. The dataset dimension is 1868 x 20.
It would be helpful to change rount numbers and route as variables for
investigations interested on specific routes.

To find out the number of unique stations, select station name and line
and use `distinct()` to find all unique combinations that each
represents a unique station. The number of rows represent the number of
unique stations.

``` r
transit_df %>% 
  select(station_name, line) %>% 
  distinct
```

    ## # A tibble: 465 × 2
    ##    station_name             line    
    ##    <chr>                    <chr>   
    ##  1 25th St                  4 Avenue
    ##  2 36th St                  4 Avenue
    ##  3 45th St                  4 Avenue
    ##  4 53rd St                  4 Avenue
    ##  5 59th St                  4 Avenue
    ##  6 77th St                  4 Avenue
    ##  7 86th St                  4 Avenue
    ##  8 95th St                  4 Avenue
    ##  9 9th St                   4 Avenue
    ## 10 Atlantic Av-Barclays Ctr 4 Avenue
    ## # … with 455 more rows

Turns out, there are 465 unique stations.

To find out the number of ADA compliant stations, filter `ada == TRUE`
first and then select unique stations the same as before. The number of
rows represent the number of ADA compliant stations.

``` r
transit_df %>% 
  filter(ada == TRUE) %>% 
  select(station_name, line) %>% 
  distinct
```

    ## # A tibble: 84 × 2
    ##    station_name                   line           
    ##    <chr>                          <chr>          
    ##  1 Atlantic Av-Barclays Ctr       4 Avenue       
    ##  2 DeKalb Av                      4 Avenue       
    ##  3 Pacific St                     4 Avenue       
    ##  4 Grand Central                  42nd St Shuttle
    ##  5 34th St                        6 Avenue       
    ##  6 47-50th Sts Rockefeller Center 6 Avenue       
    ##  7 Church Av                      6 Avenue       
    ##  8 21st St                        63rd Street    
    ##  9 Lexington Av                   63rd Street    
    ## 10 Roosevelt Island               63rd Street    
    ## # … with 74 more rows

Turns out, there are 84 ADA compliant stations.

To find out the proportion of station entrances / exits without vending
allow entrance, first filter stations that don’t allow vending, and then
take the mean of the `entry` variable. The result is the parameter of
interest.

``` r
transit_df %>% 
  filter(vending == "NO") %>% 
  pull(entry) %>% 
  mean
```

    ## [1] 0.3770492

Turns out, the proportion of station entrances / exits without vending
allow entrance is about 0.377

Reformat data so that route number and route name are distinct
variables, then identify stations that serve the A train and how many of
those are ADA compliant using the `filter`, `select`, and `distinct`
arguments.

``` r
reformat_df = transit_df %>% 
  pivot_longer(
    route1:route11,
    names_to = "route_number",
    values_to = "route") 

reformat_df %>%   
  filter(route == "A") %>% 
  select(station_name, line) %>% 
  distinct
```

    ## # A tibble: 60 × 2
    ##    station_name                  line           
    ##    <chr>                         <chr>          
    ##  1 Times Square                  42nd St Shuttle
    ##  2 125th St                      8 Avenue       
    ##  3 145th St                      8 Avenue       
    ##  4 14th St                       8 Avenue       
    ##  5 168th St - Washington Heights 8 Avenue       
    ##  6 175th St                      8 Avenue       
    ##  7 181st St                      8 Avenue       
    ##  8 190th St                      8 Avenue       
    ##  9 34th St                       8 Avenue       
    ## 10 42nd St                       8 Avenue       
    ## # … with 50 more rows

``` r
reformat_df %>% 
  filter(route == "A", ada == TRUE) %>% 
  select(station_name, line) %>% 
  distinct
```

    ## # A tibble: 17 × 2
    ##    station_name                  line            
    ##    <chr>                         <chr>           
    ##  1 14th St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  2 168th St - Washington Heights 8 Avenue        
    ##  3 175th St                      8 Avenue        
    ##  4 34th St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  5 42nd St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  6 59th St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  7 Inwood - 207th St             8 Avenue        
    ##  8 West 4th St                   8 Avenue        
    ##  9 World Trade Center            8 Avenue        
    ## 10 Times Square-42nd St          Broadway        
    ## 11 59th St-Columbus Circle       Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 12 Times Square                  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 13 8th Av                        Canarsie        
    ## 14 Franklin Av                   Franklin        
    ## 15 Euclid Av                     Fulton          
    ## 16 Franklin Av                   Fulton          
    ## 17 Howard Beach                  Rockaway

Turns out, there are 60 stations that serve the A train and 17 stations
that serve the A train while being ADA compliant.

## Problem 2

Import two data sheets from
`Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-7-2020-2.xlsx`, clean the names od the
variables and filter out only dumpster-specific data. Round the number
of sports balls to the nearest integer and converts the result to an
integer variable.

``` r
mr_trash_df = 
  read_excel("data/Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-7-2020-2.xlsx", sheet = 1, range = "A2:N534") %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  filter(dumpster != "NA") %>% 
  mutate(sports_balls = as.integer(round(sports_balls)))

professor_trash_df = 
  read_excel("data/Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-7-2020-2.xlsx", sheet = 2, range = "A2:N116") %>%
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  filter(dumpster != "NA") %>% 
  mutate(sports_balls = as.integer(round(sports_balls)))
```
